# WordWall Features

<img
src="https://app.cdn.wordwall.net/static/content/images/loading_bar_white_small.2b_1tqzjucyplw6yqoygnua2.gif"
class="js-header-ajax-load float-right header-load" />

## Features

- <a href="/features#formats" class="js-scroll-to-anchor">Interactives and
  printables</a>
- <a href="/features#templates" class="js-scroll-to-anchor">Create using
  templates</a>
- <a href="/features#switching" class="js-scroll-to-anchor">Switching
  template</a>
- <a href="/features#editing" class="js-scroll-to-anchor">Edit any
  activity</a>  
- <a href="/features#visualstyles" class="js-scroll-to-anchor">Visual
  styles and options</a>
- <a href="/features#publishing" class="js-scroll-to-anchor">Sharing with
  teachers</a>
- <a href="/features#embedding" class="js-scroll-to-anchor">Embedding on a
  website</a>
- <a href="/features#assignments" class="js-scroll-to-anchor">Student
  assignments</a>

<span id="formats"></span>

![](https://app.cdn.wordwall.net/static/content/images/features/formats.2gg_ixxou07sgsqe-thii-g2.png)

# Interactives and printables

Wordwall can be used to create both interactive and printable
activities. Most of our templates are available in both an interactive
and a printable version.

**Interactives** are played on any web-enabled device, like a computer,
tablet, phone or interactive whiteboard. They can be played individually
by students, or be teacher-led with students taking turns at the front
of the class.

**Printables** can be printed out directly or downloaded as a PDF file.
They can be used as a companion to the interactive or as stand-alone
activities.

<span id="templates"></span>

![](https://app.cdn.wordwall.net/static/content/images/features/templates.28rzxky7ktuol7lt1je1xtg2.png)

# Create using templates

Our activities are created using a template system.

These templates include familiar classics like **Quiz** and
**Crossword**. We also have arcade style games like **Maze Chase** and
**Airplane**, and there are classroom management tools such as **Seating
plan**.

To make a new activity you start by selecting your template and then
enter your content. It's easy and means you can create a fully
interactive activity in a only a couple of minutes.

Where can I find a list of templates?

On the <a href="/#templates" target="">Home page</a> you'll see a list
of templates at the bottom. Click on any of these to see some examples.

How many templates do I get?

It depends on which type of account you have. In total there are **34
interactives** and **21 printables**, but see
<a href="/price-plans" target="">Price plan</a> for more specific
information.

Can I submit ideas or suggest changes to your templates?

Absolutely, we are always open to suggestions. Please email
**<help@wordwall.net>** with your feedback.

<span id="switching"></span>

![](https://app.cdn.wordwall.net/static/content/images/features/switching.26hvwszbyfvdxne4lkz1sba2.png)

# Switching template

Once you've created an activity, you can switch it to a different
template with a single click. This saves you time and is great for
**differentiation** and **reinforcement**.

For example, if you created a **Match** activity based on names of
shapes, you could turn it into a **Crossword** with the exact the same
shape names.

In the same way we can turn your resource into a **Quiz** or a
**Wordsearch** and many more possibilities too.

How do I switch my activity's template?

Look for the **Switch template** panel on the right hand side of every
activity page.

The original template is listed at the top, with all the other options
underneath.

How many templates can I switch into?

It varies depending on both the starting template and the nature of your
content.

We attempt to convert your content into as many other templates as
possible, so potentially dozens.

We list the best few options for each format directly in the
**Switch template** panel.

The more esoteric options can be found under **Show all**.

I'm not seeing the template option I want...

The following reasons can limit the number of available options:

- Some templates, like **Anagram** or **Wordsearch**, only work with
  plain text. If your material contains images, numbers, or special
  characters, we can't always convert them into those text-based
  templates.
- Some templates require a minimum amount of content. For example, a
  **Whack-a-mole** requires at least 5 correct and 5 incorrect answers.
- Some templates, like **Random wheel**, have a simple list of content,
  which can't be converted into more complex structures like questions
  and answers.

<span id="editing"></span>

![](https://app.cdn.wordwall.net/static/content/images/features/editing.2oxd4xkcslrjp7dykdkzd9g2.png)

# Edit any activity

There's no need to settle for pre-made activities. If you find an
activity but it's not quite right, you can easily **customize** the
material to suit your class and your teaching style.

How do I edit an activity?

On any activity page, you can find an **Edit content** link underneath
the activity itself. After adapting the activity's content, click
**Done** to save the changes.

What happens if I edit a public activity?

The public version can only be modified by the original author, but you
will get a private copy which you are free to edit.

<span id="visualstyles"></span>

![](https://app.cdn.wordwall.net/static/content/images/features/themes.2tnnwqa3shvszollfoyb7sg2.png)

# Visual styles and options

Interactives can be presented in different visual styles. Each visual
style changes the look and feel with different graphics, fonts, and
sounds.

You'll also find further options to set a timer or change the gameplay.

The printables have options too. For example, you can change the font,
or print multiple copies per page.

How do I set a timer?

Almost every template has a timer setting in the options panel
underneath the visual styles. You can change this in advance of starting
the game.

Templates that are designed to be teacher-led (e.g. **Seating plan** and
**Brainstorm**) also allow you to change the timer whilst the game is
running. You can do this by clicking on the timer readout.

My students are finding the game too fast...

Game-style templates such as **Whack-a-mole** or **Airplane** have
difficulty settings in the options panel under the visual styles. You
can tweak these to make the game easier if you need to.

Do you have a visual style that's good for Kindergarten, Reception or
Key Stage 1?

Yes, look for the visual style called **Primary**. The font it uses has
been specifically created for students who are learning to read.

Can I change the options on someone else's activity?

If you are not logged in, the game will run under whichever options the
author set.

However if you are logged in you can override those options to suit your
own needs.

<span id="assignments"></span>

![](https://app.cdn.wordwall.net/static/content/images/features/assignment.2z2ji8jqtczbrllfgmsyqyg2.png)

# Student assignments

Wordwall activities can be used as student-completed assignments. When a
teacher sets an assignment, students are directed to that one activity
without the distraction of visiting the main activity page.

This feature can be used **in-class** where students have access to
their own devices, or as a way of setting **homework**.

Each student's results are recorded and made available to the teacher.

How do I set up an assignment?

Go to an activity page and click the **Share** button.

Choose **Set Assignment**. On the next page, you can configure student
access and results tracking.

The final page displays a unique access link. You must communicate this
link to the students.

When the students visit the link, they are presented with your
assignment.

Where can I see the results?

Visit the **My Results** section at the top of the page, then select the
activity you want to see results for.

Individual students' results are available as soon as the student has
completed the activity.

Which templates support assignments?

Airplane, Anagram, Balloon pop, Complete the sentence, Crossword, Find
the match, Flash cards, Flying fruit, Gameshow quiz, Group sort,
Hangman, Image quiz, Labelled diagram, Match up, Matching pairs, Maze
chase, Pair or No Pair, Quiz, Rank order, Speed sorting, Spell the word,
True or false, Type the answer, Unjumble, Watch and memorize,
Whack-a-mole, Win or lose quiz, Wordsearch.

<span id="publishing"></span>

![](https://app.cdn.wordwall.net/static/content/images/features/publishing.21d2vtkm_iailjhtqwjgw4w2.png)

# Sharing with teachers

Any activity you create can be made **public**. This allows you to share
its activity page link via email, on social media or via other means. It
also allows other teachers to find the activity in our
<a href="/community" target="">Community</a> search results, play it,
and build upon it.

If you prefer you can keep activities **private**, which means only you
can access it.

How do I share an activity?

All activities are initially private when you create them.

To share it click the **Share** button on the activity page.

Then press **Make Public** and you'll have the option to add tags for
age, subject and topic. Your resources will be easier for other teachers
to find it if you select these.

You'll get a unique link for your activity, which can be emailed or
posted on social media.

Should I give this link to my students?

You can, but it's usually not the best way of doing it.

<a href="#assignments" class="js-scroll-to-anchor"
target="">Assignments</a> provide your students with a more focused way
of completing the task, without lots of distracting options aimed at
teachers. They also allows you to track the students' results.

<span id="embedding"></span>

![](https://app.cdn.wordwall.net/static/content/images/features/embedding.2jxvv-yxhvwtboi2yqpdtug2.png)

# Embedding on a website

Wordwall activities can be placed on another website using a snippet of
HTML code. It works in the same way as the video embed feature you find
on YouTube or Vimeo, giving you a playable activity on your own site.

This is a great way to enhance your own blog or your school's virtual
learning environment (VLE).

Where can I find the embed code?

To embed an activity, click the **Share** button on the activity page.

You can choose to share with either teacher or students. Select students
if you want to collect the results.

Pick either path and then complete the steps until you get to **all
done**.

Underneath the link you'll find the **&lt;/&gt;** icon; click it to view
the embed codes. These can be copied and pasted into your site.

Can I track results from it?

Yes. After clicking the **Share** button, choose to share with students
by clicking **Set Assignment**.

By embedding it as an <a href="#assignments" class="js-scroll-to-anchor"
target="">assignment</a>, you'll be able to collect any results
generated.

What's the difference between Icon, Thumbnail and IFrame?

There are 3 different styles of code you can use:

**Small icon** - A compact one-line link with icon and title.

**Thumbnail** - A larger thumbnail image link with title underneath.

**IFrame** - A playable activity hosted on your own page.

The first two options offer a lightweight way of inserting a nicely
formatted link on your site. Which you choose is a matter of aesthetics.

The **IFrame** option gives you the ability to have a fullscreen
interactive experience without leaving your site.

<span class="js-footer-ajax-load"></span>

<a href="#" class="js-auto-save-link auto-save-link">Continue editing:
<span class="auto-save-title js-auto-save-title"></span>?</a>

<img
src="https://app.cdn.wordwall.net/static/content/images/loading_spin_blue.20kty4xac5s0rt11uq2ozow2.gif"
id="spinner_blue" class="hidden" /> <img
src="https://app.cdn.wordwall.net/static/content/images/loading_spin_grey.2grlzzh2rocikzvsxmewb5q2.gif"
id="spinner_grey" class="hidden" />
